# CS180-Project-4
CS180 Project 4

Our project contains 6 classes (Customer, Market, Marketplace, Product, Seller, and Store) and an interface called User that some of the classes extend. Additionally, it contains a class to test the program. It is important to note that these classes incorporate the general functionality of the program as mentioned in the basic instructions. On a high level, our program contains a marketplace with a centralized listing page of all the products available for purchase along with information about the qualities of each product. Sellers can edit the products associated with their stores, and customers can view, search and sort, add products to cart, and purchase products. Customers can view information about their purchased items and review the history of all previously purchased items, in addition to exporting a file with their purchase history. Additionally, the customer shopping cart is preserved between shopping sessions and remains even when the customer. Sellers can view statistics for each of their store(s)’ customers and customer purchase history information. Customers can contact sellers (and vice versa) and view their conversation history. To run the program and access this functionality, simply create an account if you don’t already have one by signing up and continue from there by utilizing the commands. Below is the descriptive functionality for how each class in our program is designed to make this happen.

Customer
The customer class is a subclass of the user class. It contains information that every user should have plus additional fields specific to this class, such as customer shopping carts and items purchased history. The customer class contains method functionality and manipulation of 2 array lists that customers use: shopping cart and items purchased.  These two array lists hold Product objects. It also contains methods specific to the required features such as view dashboard and export purchase history. This class communicates with the Market class and the Marketplace class. Market class is the class for containing all the information from the stored files. Market class would hold all the customers that currently exist. The marketplace class is the class that has the main method. The Customer class communicates with the Market class, and the Marketplace communicates with the Customer class via Market class. The tests that were done to this class operate similarly. The main method communicates Customer class via the Market class or sometimes directly calls methods from the Customer class. Either way, the functionality of Customer class is tested through those classes.

Market
The market class contains the array list of users, customers, products, stores, and sellers and has the text file reading functionality that allows for sellers and customers to view their respective statistics. These statistics consist of, in more depth, a list of customers with the number of items that they have purchased and a list of products with the number of sales for sellers, and a list of stores by number of products sold and a list of stores by the products purchased by that customer for each customer. This class utilizes functionality from the Customer, Store, Seller, and Product classes. It uses this functionality to store data about each of these attributes and read and write information in files using a CSV reader. To test this class, we put in multiple types of user inputs and verified the text files that were being written to make sure that they were being written correctly, by matching them up with the original format for what the text files should look like.



Marketplace
The marketplace class contains all the main method functionality for our entire program. It calls and uses methods directly or indirectly from every single class in the program. It allows for signing up and logging in, identification of the user as a seller or customer, and calls all the other methods accordingly. It essentially allows sellers and customers to interact with our program. In terms of the interaction for sellers, sellers can create many stores in the system, and populate the system with the products that each store sells. They can view customer carts, view statistics for each store, communicate with customers through the mail page, view all the stores that they have, edit information for each store, and edit their profile. Customers, on the other hand, interact with the stores that the sellers have created. Customers can search products through a filtering system: by stores, by individual products, or by sorting the products by price and quantity. They can view their shopping cart, view or export their purchase history, view their dashboard, and communicate with sellers via the mail page. They can also edit their personal profile like sellers. To test the functionality of this class, we created a Run Local Test class to test the possible output for one hypothetical test case. You can also go through the print statements to see what the intended functionality and string output for different test case inputs are and then test different hypothetical cases to see if they match up, and debug accordingly, which is what we did.

Product
The product class works through all foundational information for each product that is created. It contains and initializes a product’s name, seller, store, description, price, quantity available, and name of the customer that owns it. Apart from the constructors, getters and setters, there is a method called displayProduct, which prints the name, price, and quantity available of the product, a method called page, which prints the name, price, description, and quantity available of the product, and a method called productDetails, which returns an array containing the name, seller, store, description, price, quantity available, and name of the customer who owns it, in the order given. To test this class, we called the displayProduct and page to see that the information printed was correct, and called the productDetails to make sure that the information in the array was right.


Seller
The seller class creates an array list of stores that the seller owns, so that we make sure each store correctly corresponds with the right seller. This class extends the User class and utilizes functionality from the Store class. It also takes the seller information in the array list and adds that information to that seller’s corresponding store of choice. We tested this class in the main method by making sure that when we logged in/signed up as sellers, the correct stores were being shown.

Store
The store class takes the purchase history, customers, and current products available for sale for each individual store. The methods in this class add customers to the corresponding statistics list for the seller to view for each of their store(s) and get and set this information about the store. There is also method functionality that allows the information to be imported to a specified file path through a CSV file, via the import CSV and export CSV methods. We essentially used open CSV library to read and write CSV in our program. The Market class contains all the stores available and instantiates stores from txt files. This class keeps track of its customers and can add new products to itself.  This store class in the main method gives the customer some products to look at to buy. The seller can create different instances of this class to store their products. A customer can remove an item from this class when it buys the rest of the available quantity. Running the main method taking the customer and seller input. A successful case for a seller from would entail the showStatistics() method displaying all the correct values.



User
Lastly, the user class works through all the foundational information for each user, regardless of whether they are a customer or seller. It contains and initializes a user’s email, username, password, and sets up an inbox for messaging. Apart from the constructor, getters, and setters, it has a method called logIn, which checks whether the username and password entered is correct, a method called usernameExists, which checks whether a username is available to use when signing up, a method called sendMessage, which lets users communicate with each other, and a method called readInbox, which prints the contents of the user’s messaging inbox. To test this class, we put in different usernames and passwords to check that the login method works correctly, and entered different usernames to check that the usernameExists only returned true when a username was available.






Submission:

Anisha Bandhakavi- Submitted Report on Brightspace

Seokho (Ethan) Lee- Submitted Vocareum workspace
